ORDON RAMSAY

DATE OF BIRTH - NOVEMBER 8, 1966
PLACE OF BIRTH - JOHNSTONE
PROFESSION - PRESENTER, CHEF, RESTAURATEUR, TV PERSONALITY, COOK, TELEVISION PRODUCER, ACTOR

Gordon Ramsay net worth: Gordon Ramsay is a Chef, restaurateur and reality television star who has a net worth of $120 million. Gordon Ramsay's salary per episode is $225,000 and he earns an additional $45 million per year from his media and restaurant empire. Gordon Ramsay has earned his net worth by owning several high end restaurants and by starring and producing a range of reality TV shows. He served as a Commis Chef at the Roxburgh House Hotel, at the Wickham Arms, (where he ran the restaurant and took care of dining room), and at Harveys in London, as well as several other restaurants in between. Ramsay's experience in the restaurant business and the culinary arts helped him to expand his horizons and open several restaurants of his own around the world.

In 1998 he opened his first restaurant, Gordon Ramsay at Royal Hospital Road, in Chelsea. Gordon Ramsay was the first Scotsman to win three Michelin stars, which is awarded for outstanding quality and exceptional cuisine. Only three other Chefs have been awarded and kept the three Michelin Stars. Ramsay is also the winner of three Catey Awards, (as newcomer of the year, 1995) and (Chef of the Year, 2000). Ramsay also is in a partnership with father-in-law, Chris Hutcheson, in Gordon Ramsay Holdings Limited, which purchased three English Pubs and converted them into restaurant/bar establishments. He was also a culinary consultant for Singapore Airlines and several catering organizations.

Ramsay has become a well known television personality, appearing first in documentaries, "Boiling Point" and "Beyond Boiling Point." He also appeared on "Faking It," helping a future chef to learn the trade. In 2004, Gordon Ramsay began working on two British television shows, "Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares" and "Hell's Kitchen." He also appears on the U.S. version of both programs as well as Master Chef, a competition between amateur chefs.

Gordon Ramsay was born in Johnstone, Renfrewshire, Scotland, and spent his childhood in Stratford-upon-Avon. He has a brother named Ronnie, and a younger sister, Yvonne. At the age of 12 he played football for Warwichshire, but suffered several injuries. He did train with and play for the Rangers, until he suffered irreparable knee damage. He attended North Oxfordshire Technical College, where he studied Hotel Management. He married Cayetana Elizabeth Hutcheson in 1996 and they have four children, Megan (1998), twins, Jack and Holly (2000), and Matilda (2002).

On top of his three current shows on Fox, Hell's Kitchen, Kitchen Nightmares and Master Chef, he has a new show in the works called Hotel Hell. In Hotel Hell, Gordon Ramsey will tour hotels, motels, resorts and bed & breakfasts to help them with their restaurants, as well as other aspects of their business.