Seven Spices For Soup

Packaged soups leave you cold? Make your own: it can take as little as 15 minutes, and these spices will make sure it's bursting with health benefits as well as flavour.

Black pepper
Benefits Pepping up your soup can help improve digestion and reduce fever. This special spice also has antibacterial and antioxidant effects.
Use it Grind over all soups.

Cinnamon
Benefits Cinnamon has been shown to improve blood glucose and cholesterol levels in people with type 2 diabetes. Aim for a quarter to half a teaspoon of cinnamon twice a day.
Use it Sprinkle a little in tomato-based soups like minestrone.

Turmeric
Benefits Some studies have shown that curcumin, a compound in turmeric, may inhibit the growth of cancer cells. And it's also a great anti-inflammatory. It has detoxing effects on the liver and may prevent and slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease by removing amyloid plaque build-up in the brain.
Use it Add 1/4 tsp (per serve) of turmeric to vegetable- and lentil-based soups.

Rosemary
Benefits Rosemary may help stop gene mutations that can lead to certain types of cancer. It can also boost liver function and it contains substances that are useful for stimulating the immune system, increasing circulation, and improving digestion. Plus it may help reduce the severity of asthma attacks, and increase blood flow to the head to improve concentration. Talk about a wonder herb!
Use it Great in chicken soups - add a few sprigs at the start of cooking.

Garlic
Benefits Garlic is an antibacterial, so it fights off infections, and it has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Plus, it's been shown to lower cholesterol , blood pressure the risk of stroke and heart disease... Hey, there are worse things than garlic breath!
Use it Let garlic sit for 10 to 15 minutes after chopping and before cooking so the active form of the protective phytochemicals develops. Fresh garlic is great in most soups, but it's especially delish in tomato- and chicken-based soups.

Paprika
Benefit Paprika contains capsaicin, which has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties that may lower the risk of cancer.
Use it Add a teaspoon or two of paprika or smoked paprika to tomato-based soups.

Ginger
Benefit Ginger can decrease motion sickness and nausea and it may relieve pain and swelling associated with arthritis.
Use it Add 1/4 tsp ground ginger to vegie-based soups and chicken soups.

Oregano
Benefit A study published in the American Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry found that, gram for gram, oregano has the highest antioxidant activity of 27 fresh culinary herbs.
Use it To spice up tomato soup, add 1 to 2 tsp of oregano to tomato-based soups. It's awesome in minestrone.